---
title: 'Woman’s Mental Health During Pregnancy'
date: 'March 7, 2021'
sort_by: 1
excerpt: 'The purpose of the blog is to provide psychoeducation to women'
cover_image: '/images/posts/1.jpg'
---

The purpose of the blog is to provide psychoeducation to women, as psychoeducation reduces anxiety and increases the likelihood of using support services, as well as to inform the public and especially to increase the sensitivity of medical personnel, as early recognition of difficulties and preventive mechanisms significantly reduce adverse outcomes.
Mental health issues still remain a taboo subject, which causes and reinforces stigma. Women's mental health in the perinatal period carries a special stigma, because myths and stereotypes about the "ideal" pregnancy and "ideal" motherhood are still relevant. Support services are less accessible, and there is less sensitivity on the part of medical staff and the general public.
Both pregnancy and the post-pregnancy period present a woman with difficult challenges. Body changes, increased responsibilities, changes in daily routine, disruption of sleep patterns, adaptation to a new role, expectations towards oneself, partner and family members, all these affect a woman's physical and mental health, as well as her social life. 
During this period it is also common to activate old life traumas and difficulties and try to reprocess them in the psyche. The changes taking place during this period may cause fear, anxiety, alienation from oneself and one's body.
Often, during pregnancy and post-pregnancy, such thoughts and emotions appear that frighten a woman, make her feel guilty, doubt herself - her own "normality", which becomes even more painful in the background of the ideas in society.
Examples of such possible thoughts are doubts about the desire to have children, fear about one's health and safety, and suicidal thoughts may also arise. Thoughts of similar content are not uncommon. With appropriate support, we can significantly improve the condition of women.
